---
weight: 30
date: "2022-04-14"
author: "Vladimir Lapin"
type: docs
url: /net/licensing/
title: Licensing
description: Learn how to obtain and apply Aspose.OMR for .NET license and discover limitations of the trial version.
keywords:
- license
- evaluation
- trial
- free
- purchase
---

Aspose.OMR for .NET is a commercially licensed product that can be used in trial (evaluation) mode.

## Free trial

You can start using Aspose.OMR for .NET right after the [installation](/omr/net/installation/).

In trial mode (without providing a license) you can design, generate, and recognize OMR forms. However, the following restrictions apply:

- A **watermark** is added to print forms generated by Aspose.OMR for .NET.
- Only the first **5** elements of the template source are rendered on print forms. The remaining elements are ignored.
- Only the first **5** answers are recognized on the filled forms. The remaining answers are ignored.

Apply a license to remove the restrictions.

## Getting a temporary license

A temporary license removes all limitations of the trial version for **30 days**. Use it to start building a fully functional OMR application and make the final decision to [purchase](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/net) Aspose.OMR for .NET later.

To request a temporary license, visit ["Get a Temporary License"](https://purchase.aspose.com/temporary-license) page.

## Purchasing a license

Aspose.OMR for .NET is licensed either by the number of developers and locations (sites) where the products will be used (_Developer_ and _Site_ licenses) or by pay-per-use (_Metered_ licenses).

Read [License Types](https://purchase.aspose.com/policies/license-types) for details and [purchase a license](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/net) that best suits your needs.

## Applying a license

After receiving a purchased or temporary license, load it in your application's code or include the license file to the application as an embedded resource.

{{% alert color="primary" %}} 

You can rename the license file and even change its extension.

{{% /alert %}} 

### Loading a license from file

Put the license (_.lic_) file to one of the following locations:

- explicit path;
- the folder that contains Aspose.OMR for .NET assembly;
- the folder that contains the calling assembly;
- the folder that contains the entry (startup) assembly.

Then insert the following code in your startup method before calling any other Aspose.OMR class:

```c#
// Initialize the licensing object
Aspose.OMR.License omrLicense = new Aspose.OMR.License();

// Load the license from file
omrLicense.SetLicense("Aspose_OMR_License_File.lic");
```

If no path is provided, `SetLicense` method will look for the license file in the folder that contains Aspose.OMR for .NET component, in the folder that contains the calling assembly, and in the folder of the entry assembly. If you prefer to load the license from the explicit path, provide the full path in `SetLicense` method.

### Loading a license from stream

Insert the following code in your startup method before calling any other Aspose.OMR class:

```c#
// Initialize the licensing object
Aspose.OMR.License omrLicense = new Aspose.OMR.License();

// Read the license from file
FileStream licenseStream = new FileStream(@"C:\Aspose_OMR_License_File.lic", FileMode.Open);

// Load the license
omrLicense.SetLicense(licenseStream);
```

{{% alert color="primary" %}} 

Do not forget to add `using System.IO;` to your code for accessing **FileStream** class without referring it by the full namespace.

{{% /alert %}} 


### Including a license file as an embedded resource

You can include the license file as an embedded resource into one of the assemblies that call Aspose.OMR for .NET. This ensures that the file is not accidentally lost.

- In Microsoft Visual Studio, right-click the project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Add | Existing Item...** from the context menu.
- Select the license (_.lic_) file and click **Add** button.
- Select the license file in **Solution Explorer** and set its **Build Action** property to _Embedded resource_.

Then insert the following code in your startup method before calling any other Aspose.OMR class:

```c#
// Initialize the licensing object
Aspose.OMR.License omrLicense = new Aspose.OMR.License();

// Load the license from file
omrLicense.SetLicense("Aspose_OMR_License_File.lic");

// Indicate that license will be embedded to the application
omrLicense.Embedded = true;
```

## Licensing multiple Aspose products

- Even if you have a single license file for all Aspose products (such as [Aspose.Total for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/total/net/)), you still need to apply the license separately to **each** Aspose product you are using in your application.
- Each Aspose product has a **License** class in its namespace. Use the fully qualified **License** class name when applying licenses to each product to avoid ambiguity; for example:  
  
  ```c#
  // Aspose.OMR
  Aspose.OMR.License omrLicense = new Aspose.OMR.License();
  omrLicense.SetLicense("Aspose_OMR_License_File.lic");

  // Aspose.BarCode
  Aspose.BarCode.License barcodeLicense = new Aspose.BarCode.License();
  barcodeLicense.SetLicense("Aspose_BarCode_License_File.lic");
  ```
