---
weight: 30
date: "2023-06-06"
author: "Vladimir Lapin"
type: docs
url: /java/licensing/
feedback: OMRJAVA
title: Licensing
description: Learn how to obtain and apply the license for Aspose.OMR for Java and discover limitations of the trial version.
keywords:
- license
- evaluation
- trial
- free
- purchase
---

Aspose.OMR for Java is a commercially licensed product that can be used in trial (evaluation) mode.

## Free trial

You can start using Aspose.OMR for Java right after the [installation](/omr/java/installation/) without providing a license. The package will work in trial mode, which allows you to design, generate, and recognize machine-readable forms. However, the following restrictions apply:

- A **watermark** is added to print forms generated by Aspose.OMR for Java.
- Only the first **5** elements of the template source are rendered on print forms. The remaining elements are ignored.
- Only the first **5** answers are recognized on the filled forms. The remaining answers are ignored.

Apply a license to remove the restrictions.

## Getting a temporary license

A temporary license removes all limitations of the trial version for **30 days**. Use it to start building a fully functional OMR application and make the final decision to [purchase](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/java) Aspose.OMR for Java later.

To request a temporary license, visit ["Get a Temporary License"](https://purchase.aspose.com/temporary-license) page.

## Purchasing a license

Aspose.OMR for Java is licensed either by the number of developers and locations (sites) where the products will be used (_Developer_ and _Site_ licenses).

Read [License Types](https://purchase.aspose.com/policies/license-types) for details and [purchase a license](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/java) that best suits your needs.

{{% alert color="primary" %}} 
You can rename the license file after purchasing and even change its extension.
{{% /alert %}} 

## Applying a license

After receiving a purchased or temporary license, load it in your application's code.

{{< tabs tabID="1" tabTotal="2" tabName1="Loading a license from file" tabName2="Loading a license from stream" >}}
{{< tab tabNum="1" >}}
```csharp
License omrLicense = new License();
omrLicense.setLicense("Aspose.OMR.lic");
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab tabNum="2" >}}
```csharp
License omrLicense = new License();
omrLicense.setLicense(new java.io.FileInputStream("Aspose.OMR.lic"));
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Licensing multiple Aspose products

- Even if you have a single license file for all Aspose products (such as [Aspose.Total](https://products.aspose.com/total/)), you still need to apply the license separately to **each** Aspose product you are using in your application.
- Each Aspose product has a **License** class in its namespace. Use the fully qualified **License** class name when applying licenses to each product to avoid ambiguity.
