---
weight: 30
date: "2023-06-08"
author: "Vladimir Lapin"
type: docs
url: /cpp/licensing/
feedback: OMRCPP
title: Licensing
description: Learn how to obtain and apply the license for Aspose.OMR for ะก++ and discover limitations of the trial version.
keywords:
- license
- evaluation
- trial
- free
- purchase
---

Aspose.OMR for C++ is a commercially licensed product that can be used in trial (evaluation) mode.

## Free trial

You can start using Aspose.OMR for C++ right after the [installation](/omr/cpp/installation/).

In trial mode (without providing a license) you can design, generate, and recognize OMR forms. However, the following restrictions apply:

- A **watermark** is added to print forms generated by Aspose.OMR for C++.
- Only the first **5** elements of the template source are rendered on print forms. The remaining elements are ignored.
- Only the first **5** answers are recognized on the filled forms. The remaining answers are ignored.

Apply a license to remove the restrictions.

## Getting a temporary license

A temporary license removes all limitations of the trial version for **30 days**. Use it to start building a fully functional OMR application and make the final decision to [purchase](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/cpp) Aspose.OMR for C++ later.

To request a temporary license, visit ["Get a Temporary License"](https://purchase.aspose.com/temporary-license) page.

## Purchasing a license

Aspose.OMR for C++ is licensed either by the number of developers and locations (sites) where the products will be used (_Developer_ and _Site_ licenses) or by pay-per-use (_Metered_ licenses).

Read [License Types](https://purchase.aspose.com/policies/license-types) for details and [purchase a license](https://purchase.aspose.com/pricing/omr/cpp) that best suits your needs.

{{% alert color="primary" %}} 
After downloading the license file, you can rename it and even change its extension.
{{% /alert %}} 

## Applying a license

After receiving a purchased or temporary license, load it in your application's code. Insert the following code in your startup method before calling any other Aspose.OMR for C++ methods:

```cpp
// Initialize the licensing object
auto license = System::MakeObject<License>();

// Load the license from file
license->SetLicense(u"Aspose_OMR_CPP_License_File.lic");
```

If no path is provided, `SetLicense` method will look for the license file in the folder that contains Aspose.OMR for C++ component and in the folder of the application. If you prefer to load the license from the explicit path, provide the full path in `SetLicense` method.

## Licensing multiple Aspose products

- Even if you have a single license file for all Aspose products (such as [Aspose.Total](https://products.aspose.com/total/)), you still need to apply the license separately to **each** Aspose product you are using in your application.
- Each Aspose product has a **License** class in its namespace. Use the fully qualified **License** class name when applying licenses to each product to avoid ambiguity; for example:  
  
  ```cpp
  // Aspose.OMR
	auto omrLicense = System::MakeObject<License>();
	omrLicense->SetLicense(u"Aspose_OMR_CPP_License_File.lic");

  // Aspose.BarCode
	auto barcodeLicense = System::MakeObject<License>();
	barcodeLicense->SetLicense(u"Aspose_Barcode_CPP_License_File.lic");
  ```
